In this lecture we will learn about how we can create gradients using CSSA code gradients or when we
fade two or more colors together.
CSSA supports two types of gradient linear gradients and radial gradient a gradient uses color stops
to define the colors to use for the gradient color shop is a color we want to smoothly transition into
another color the CSSA linear gradient function allows us to create a linear gradient.
We will pass into a more Kulish stops his arguments when we call the function to see this function in
action.
We will first create a development that we can add our linear gradient to.
Next we will give our div a height and the width.
We will also add a linear gradient to the background of our div any color stops that we pass in or separated
by commas.
In this case we are creating a linear gradient that starts out red and gradually fades to blue.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code as you can see.
We have a linear gradient that goes from red to blue.
Let's jump back to the editor.
We also have the option of adding a direction to a gradient before the color stops we can specify that
the gradient goes to top to right to left or to bottom.
A value of two top will make our gradients start the first color at the bottom and fade into the second
color at the top.
Let's specify that are greedy and should start at Red or on the bottom and fade to blue to the top.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code from the bottom to top or gradient fades from red
to blue.
Let's jump back to the editor of value of to bottom we'll make our gradient start as the first color
at the top and feed into the second color at the bottom.
Let's specify that our gradient go to bottom and run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our gradient starts out red at the top and fades to blue as it progresses towards the
bottom.
Let's go back to the editor and look at another example.
Specifying a value of 2 right will make our gradients start out with the first color on the left and
fade into the second color on the right.
We will pass the value of to right into our linear gradient function.
Then we will run our code in the web browser as you can see our gradient goes from red on the left to
blue on the right.
Let's go back to the editor of value of two left means that our gradient will start with the first color
on the right and fade into the second color on the left.
We will pass the value of two left into our linear gradient function and run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our gradient starts out red on the right and fades to blue on the left.
Let's jump back to the editor.
It is also possible for us to make a gradient diagonal by specifying a horizontal and vertical position.
For example a value of top right will make our first color start out on the bottom left and then transition
to the second color on the top right.
Let's pass a value of true top right into our linear gradient function and then run our code in the
browser as you can see the gradient starts out red on the bottom left and progresses to blue on the
top right.
Let's go back to the editor.
It is also possible to specify an angle at which to rotate the gradient.
For this example let's pass the linear gradient function a value of 45 degrees.
Then we will run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our gradient is rotated 45 degrees.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also add more than two color stops to our gradient by specifying extra colors as arguments to
the linear gradient function.
Let's say I add a third color stop to a color gradient and give it a value of black.
Then we will run our code in the web browser
now.
Our gradient goes from red to blue to black.
Let's go back to the editor radial gradings are circular gradients that start at the center and emit
outward.
We can create radial gradients using the radial grading function to see this function in action.
We will change our linear gradient to a radio gradient by changing the function name.
Then we will go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see.
We now have a radial gradient on a web page that transitions from red to blue to black in the next lecture.
We will learn how to create shadows and effects using CSSA.